I know this will go viral. You never
know like how viral it'll go. Hundreds
of people showed up to watch him eat a
cheese bowl. There's a contest to find
Timothy Shalomé lookalike. Viral for
putting crocs on the feet of statues.
The crowd got so big four were arrested.
That I did not expect. Like getting
people to care like that's so much more
meaningful than getting 10 million views
on video. It's like how do you get
someone to care? I worked for Beast for
a while. Sue me. I shouldn't say that.
Don't sue me. That was a joke. And this
is my secret sauce. So, I actually
shouldn't be giving this out, but it's
fine. I think everyone should be a
creator. Um, today on the Colin Spir
show, we're joined by Anthony
Portterero, aka Antho. We've been
telling people about this conversation
for the last few weeks, and whenever we
say we sat down with Antho, sometimes
people know who he is immediately. Other
times they don't, and you say, "Okay,
kid with Crocs, Cheeseball Man, and then
lastly, the Timothy Sha lookalike
contest." And once you say that, they're
like, "Oh my gosh, I love this guy." We
like to think about bringing guests on
the show like bringing a guest lecturer
into a classroom all about the modern
media landscape. And Antho is one of the
most unique and sharpest minds when it
comes to how attention works today. He
would be one of the most memorable
lectures of the semester. I think if
this was a real lecture hall, he would
come in dressed like a superhero and he
would I truly believe it. He'd be he'd
come in probably with a mask. uh but he
would deliver some of the most
interesting and upto-date insights about
what works on the internet today. I
would say that this is a pen and pad
episode. Like this is one where you're
going to want to write down a lot of the
things he says cuz he has such a clear
vision of how to capture a mass
audience's attention. So this episode is
all about coming up with really unique
ideas. And one of the best ways to come
up with unique ideas is to make sure
that you're brainstorming every single
day. So to help you do that, we came up
with something called 50 in five. It's a
five-day brainstorming sprint where
every day we give you a prompt to help
you write 10 ideas and by the end of
those 5 days, you have 50 new ideas for
your YouTube channel. And we've
partnered with our friends at Epidemic
Sound to give away 200 seats in 50 and 5
totally free when you click the link in
our description and sign up for a 30-day
free trial of Epidemic Sound. We've been
subscribers since 2016. And the team at
Epidemic told us that over our lifetime
as creators, we've downloaded 2,898
tracks. It's hands down the best
platform for finding music for your
YouTube videos. It's super intuitive,
and our favorite feature is that you can
download individual stems. So, like this
song that's playing right now, we can
just use the drums from it, or we can
swap that and just use the baseline. And
if you find a song you like, we can find
others with a similar vibe. who makes
finding the right song in their library
of 50,000 tracks super easy. Actually,
in our 24 hours of Mr. Beast
documentary, we pulled a track from
Epidemic, pulled it apart from all the
stems, and laid it out across the whole
piece before we started editing to set
the tone and emotional arc for the
story. And it's not just music. They
also have over 200,000 sound effects.
Sound effects like this.
That's not a real sound of me sipping
that coffee. So, if you're one of the
first 200 people to click the link in
our description, sign up for a 30-day
free trial of Epidemic Sound. We will
send you our 50 and5 brainstorming
sprint totally free. It's a win-win cuz
if you make videos, Epidemic Sound is
the best music library and you get to
check out our 50 and five brainstorming
sprint. All right, now for our episode
with Anthony Pattero aka Ano.
[Music]
Um, so do you guys start the podcast?
Oh, no. It's generally you. Okay. Do I
actually say my name or something?
Don't worry. That's good. Um, well,
Anabel, welcome to the show, man. Oh,
thanks for having me. Thanks for being
here.
Also, do do you want me to look at this
one comically? Yeah. Look at Look at you
guys. Just be natural. Just be cool,
man. Just be cool.
Um, well, it's a pleasure to be on. I've
been watching you guys since you
started. Wow. Like a long time. Like I
probably started watching you guys when
you had like 20,000 subs. No way.
Really? Oh, wow. I mean, you guys
started blowing up when I was like
starting to get into like content, so
it's cool to be here. Oh, wow. That's
awesome, man. I mean, we've been we've
been watching you for a long time and
like many iterations of you. Um, and
I've always kind of we've always talked
about how we feel like you know
something that we don't just about the
world and about human beings. And I
think that really came to a head last
year with what I would consider, I mean,
honestly, one of the most culturally
relevant moments of the year. So much so
that it like it permeated through almost
every facet of of society and culture,
which was the Timothy Sha lookalike
contest.
Yeah. Yeah. I've talked about this uh
honestly pretty scarcely considering how
big it got cuz like uh my onus is like
do something cool and then like move on.
Like I don't want to get stuck on like
one specific thing. Um cuz after I threw
a Timothy Shamay lookalike competition,
I easily could have like ran with it.
Like tons of celebrities reached out and
were like do a lookalike competition for
me, you know? But the world ran with it.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's what I prefer. Um
does do people need context or do we
just give some context? Um, so I am a
YouTuber and uh I recently have been
enjoying doing things like anonymously
to kind of like prove to myself that
like it's not like uh it's not like I
fell into this like I feel like I care
so deeply about it. So I've been hanging
up posters anonymously and the one was
for a Timothy Shaom lookalike
competition. Um, and then like 10,000
people came and it was obviously covered
internationally. And then the coolest
part was like other communities and
countries started doing it. Like there's
been thousands of people doing it and
like it's all a cool like it's what I
wanted which was like to turn the
internet into like a place for people to
hang out in real life, right? Like the
internet can feel very secular and like
perpetually in one place on your screen.
And I wanted it to be like, oh, we can
like hang out in real life, too. And I
think that's what happened. There's a
quote I heard from an artist recently
that said, "We live in a time where it's
easier to reach the entire world than it
is to reach your neighborhood." Oo. And
I think to a degree that's true, but you
kind of flipped it on its head cuz you
like you create these events like the
Shalom Lookalike Contest that like start
with bringing the world together first.
Mhm. in your neighborhood, in your area,
and then all of a sudden they scale to
the entire world. So, yeah. Did you say
you were hanging up poster? Like, were
you hanging up posters and then you just
landed on this idea? Was that one of
many ideas? Yeah. So, it started um with
last January, I wanted to eat a jar of
cheese balls in front of people, right?
A whole another story. And then I was
like, that was like a fun community
thing. Uh, so then I I've probably done
like 15 different like poster based
projects. Um, and I I don't want a huge
crowd most of the time because it
becomes like a production nightmare. Um,
but the Timothy Sha one like all I did
literally was hang up 50 posters. Like I
did no like seating. I didn't pay any
pages. Like it was just like me in my
office, my garage office with my friends
and I was like this is funny and like I
know this will go viral. It just you
never know like how viral it'll go
because like that's you know you can't
like control that. So wait why why did
you think it's funny and why do you
think it would go viral? Like what's the
anatomy of that idea? I think a lot of
like creators and like brands think of
things backwards. Like instead of like
observing a community from the outside
like you really have to like engross
yourself in it. And like I'm just
chronically online so it's easy for me
to like look at something and go oh like
if I saw this organically I would post
about it. Like that's just the northstar
for me is like I just remove myself from
the thing and I'm like if I saw this
would I think it's funny and that is
like that has not failed me yet because
I I just I I'm on Tik Tok, Instagram,
YouTube like all day. Like it's what I
unfortunately it's I'm I'm addicted. So
what's the genesis of the idea though?
How does it come about? Like do you see
something else and then you're like
interesting I could do an iteration of
that? Yeah, I think good ideas are uh
both familiar and different. I'm sure
you've heard that on this podcast 10,000
times. Um, and so like, you know, I have
proof of concept with big groups hanging
out and like I also know that people
care about celebrity culture and like
other intellectual properties and I know
that people like something that feels
absurd and dumb and like the notion that
a person hangs up a lookalike
competition poster throughout the city
is like funny, right? Like who is doing
this? Like that's a funny thought. And
then I think you just kind of like
what's their incentive like it's clearly
just for the absurdity of it. It is for
the love of the game. And that's why for
the love of the game it is that's like
um one of my favorite um YouTubers. His
name's Atriarch. He makes like economics
content or whatever. Uh when I did
Cheeseball Man, I ate a jar of cheese
balls in front of like a thousand
people. He reacted to it and like he
said like this is such a marketing win
cuz it's a guy doing it for the love of
the game. And like that kind of like
stuck with me. Granted, like I'm a
YouTuber, so it's also kind of my job,
but I think if I wanted to turn this
into a career, I would make commentary
videos and I wouldn't do these like high
lift like low profit events. I guess I'd
probably be a bit smarter about it. I
think you also have to re-evaluate the
premise of profit. Mhm. Because like if
your currency is cultural relevance or
like create giving a gift to to society
and culture like with the lookalike
contest, you you did it. And uh I think
in that in that world like everything
about it was absurd down to like the
cash prize. Yeah. And I've heard you
talk about why $50 was the cash prize
and a five foot statue, right? Yeah. 5
foot statue which was $250.
Can you talk through like the poster
itself? like what what is on the poster
because that's almost like a in real
life thumbnail in a way, right? It's an
in real life way to create enough
curiosity and enough like tension to get
people interested and like I I think
every part of it is wellcrafted in the
idea even again down to the cash prize
being $50 cuz it's there's something
about being $50 that is so absurd. Yeah.
Well, it's funny. We in my office fought
about the cash prize for like an hour.
It's like no $20 is funny. Like no, I'm
like $50 is the funniest. like it was a
real conversation we had where I think
like
everybody is so digitally native now and
everybody's doing a lot of the same
things and it feels like everybody's
trying to like grip at your attention
and like listening to these like you
know books there like YouTube videos
about retention and blah blah where it's
like how can we just evoke a feeling of
like wonder and stupidity and like
that's what I I loved the internet when
it felt stupid like when I was watching
Ryan Higa
such an important fun
it was like dang like everything is like
grabbing at your attention and is like
selling you a product and there's
nothing wrong with that but I'm like how
can I you know if I'm going to come back
to the internet I want to bring like
some sort of like whimsy back and I'm
going to like make mistakes and like
fail but eventually like something's
going to hit and that was kind kind of
like my thought process. Yeah. The
internet when early days was kind of
like especially early days of YouTube,
it was kind of a place for like
counterculture rejects of Hollywood,
right? Or like like the annoying orange
or like the my spoon is too big. It was
people doing it for the love of the
game, right? There was no incentives.
There was no money to be made, right?
So, you had to be doing it for the love
of the game. Yeah. But I also think we
lack a lot of uh humor and like in in
the world of YouTube. Like of course
there's funny content, but it's almost
like strategically funny. And I guess
what you did is strategically absurd,
but I think you can feel so much of the
strategy behind what people are doing,
right? And I think it it feels
uncomfortable to to experience that. And
I'm curious, you've referred to yourself
as a YouTuber multiple times, but do you
do you really see yourself as a YouTuber
or do you see yourself as like almost a
street artist or like performance
artist? Yeah, I've definitely gotten
that a lot more recently cuz I think
there's a lot of people that like
this is a weird thing for me where like
before, you know, I made college content
which I hold very dearly, but people
didn't know who I like if you weren't
like 18 to 24, like you you won't know
who I am. now like there's not a single
person I run into who like hasn't heard
of something I've done. Uh which is very
different and I'm very grateful for
that. Um so I guess now I'm more of like
a yeah like a performance artist. I
guess I've been getting um like dumb
internet Banksy which is like a funny
comparison. We were calling it like Tik
Tok Banksy. Banksy of Gen Z. All right.
Well, I'm going to wrap it up. Yeah. Um,
yeah. It's a I'm sure that would also
piss a lot of people off because they'd
be like like how dare you how dare you
compare this kid to Banksy. Well, it's
dumb bank. Like it's I think I mean
Banksy is like a political commentator,
right? Like he makes very important. At
the heart of what I'm doing is like
almost politically motivated. Like I I'm
trying to inject my ideals into the
internet which is like I think we take
ourselves too seriously. I think we
should all come together. So in that
sense it's political but past that it's
just dumb. And I want the done. I I'm
creating the things I wish I could see
on the internet. So bring us through the
experience a bit cuz you had asked about
making the posters. Yeah. Talk to us
about putting the posters up and then
kind of what happens after that. Yeah.
So our thought process is like we're not
trying to like create an artful poster.
We're trying to get a message across
which is why like we're never going to
make a complicated poster. There's a
really great creator in New York City um
named Coolook Bug. I don't know if
you've ever heard of him. I haven't. Uh,
fantastic. He basically finds poorly
made posters on the street and like
recreates them. Oh, yeah. I've seen that
on TikTok. He's fantastic. Like he runs
across my posters often. Um, and he says
he's never recreated them because like
there's nothing you can do to get the
message across better. It's just like
here's the picture, here's what it is,
and here's a time. And that's like we're
not, you know, like we're not doing
anything past that. It's like show up
like be there, be square. Um, and I've
se again people realize it's a great way
to just like engage the community and
people have stolen that. So, it's like I
sit in the office with some friends and
we think about what is funny and we have
a giant whiteboard wall and we write a
bunch of funny things and then I put
them all in one giant artboard in
Photoshop and we spend like a couple
hours coming up with them and then we
print them and then we hang them up and
then that's it. And then we wait and
then like I think so much of the fun we
have as like a little group is like what
is gonna take off because we're
confident like every idea has the
capacity to be large. Um but it's a
matter of like who runs into it on the
street and posts it on their Twitter or
post it on Reddit or post it on
Instagram. Like that's always the fun
game to play. Um and it doesn't change
our strategy which is just like make a
fun video in the end. So with the
Shalamé posters, did you start to see
things on Twitter, on Reddit? Is that
what gave you an indication that like,
oh, I think this one there's going to be
a lot of people there. The other thing
we'll do is we have like a sign up for
some of them that are like
production-wise a bit more like
difficult perhaps. So, we always have
like somewhat of a gauge. Like if we
have a thousand people sign up, we can
probably expect 3,000 people to show up
cuz to go out of your way to like scan a
QR code is ridiculous. And also, a lot
of people find it online. Um, so like
Cheeseball Man, there was a thousand
people that RSVPd that R like they were
like, I will be there. Count me in. And
that doesn't include like most people
probably found it on like the internet
and were like this seems fun and silly.
Um so yeah, it's always a it's always a
numbers game. I wish we could house more
people but the parks don't like me. So
So the shame one, how many people did
you anticipate? Like when did you know
it was catching traction? There was a
really funny uh picture of Timothy in
front of the poster like he like like a
paparazzi took it of like cuz we hung up
like 50 of them or whatever. Maybe like
a hundred, I forget. He was like walking
and then right behind him was the poster
and that's when we're like, "Oh, this is
going to be bad." And then we had a
friend who was working on set with him
and he was talking about it. This is
like maybe two weeks prior. And me and
my friend Paige are like, "This is we're
going to get arrested." Timothy was
talking about it. Yeah. Like on set. Got
it. Um and then then the strategy was
like no longer are we worried about this
competition. It was like how can we
contingency plan be getting arrested?
like most of our production the next two
weeks were like like we made shirts that
said like # freegilbert which was like
the alias I was going under and stuff
but then I didn't get arrested so it's
fine. So then day of you roll up walk us
through that. Uh I had a team of like
12. I think it was like you know friends
acting as producers and camera people.
Um how did you source the look alikes?
They or they they just showed up. They
just showed up. They showed up posters.
Yeah. You're right. You're right. My
bad. Yeah. There was a lot of discourse
on Tik Tok of like girls being like,
"I'm gonna find my husband." And so I
think then guys were like, "Oh, I'm
going to be someone's husband." Which is
awesome. A couple of them, the Timothy,
I'm still close with probably like 20 of
them. Uh or like long-term relationship
with somebody they met at the
competition. Yeah. Which is awesome.
Bizarre fun fact about you that you have
20 friends who look like Timothy.
There's a group chat called Brother
Shallow and it's we all like like
they'll like self-promo. They're like,
"Hey guys, check out my art piece." And
then 19 other Timothies are like, "St.
It's really fun." One of them is like
like teaching Japanese something in
Japan. Yeah. I I came across him on
Instagram. I was like, "Wait, isn't that
the winner of the show?" Also, a bunch
of them ended up on SNL with Shalom.
Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. Yeah. So, yeah.
Sorry. The day of the day of. Yes. So,
we just showed up and it's like a lot of
it is like me and I worked for Beast for
a while. Sue me. Um, I think uh
shouldn't say that. Don't sue me. That
was a joke. Retract. Retract. So, go
back. Um, uh, so I I got the pleasure of
working for Beast. And I think I learned
a lot more about like like hectic
production from that than I than I
thought I would have. And so a lot of,
you know, that came out where it's like
I'm telling, you know, I'm working with
my friends. Like I'm not working with
professionals. So I'm like giving them
like a laundry list, like a almost like
a production bible like if this happens,
we do this. If this happens, we do this.
like I'm trying to just be the host so I
don't want to have to deal with these
fires. Um cuz ultimately like we want to
make sure everybody if they don't have a
good time they have a good story. That's
what I love is that like so many people
who have come to these events have like
something to talk about at like you know
their next company gathering or like wow
a lot of like um I just threw a stuffed
animal contest. I saw that. It was just
like something silly. It was because um
Baby No Money was in town and we're good
friends. He's like let's do something.
set it up last minute. Uh the girl who
won like she's been DMing me. She's
like, "That was like the best day of my
life. Like it means so much to me." Like
being able to provide that is great. So
back to the Timothy thing, it's like how
do we assure nothing bad happens? One
Timothy did get arrested. Um but that
happens. Yeah, that'll happen. No
charges, you know, and he's one out of
20 Timothy. It's not bad. What did that
one does that one Timothy do?
He he was just like getting like the
police were pushing people and he got
pushed and he was like don't push me and
then it was like a whole thing but it's
fine. Um and uh there was there was
probably close to a hundred Timothies
but it was so chaotic and we had to like
move parks so all said and done there
was probably like 20 to 30 like but it
was at Washington Square Park. Right. It
was and then we got kicked out and so we
did like a Timothy pilgrimage. Mhm. and
I paraded like thousands of people
through the street to another park right
down the road. So, we had like
contingencies for that in case we got
kicked out. So, that was our plan. How
many people showed up? It's really hard.
I had like a um I paid somebody like
$100 to count. Like I was like, use all
the footage from like the AP and like my
stuff. And it's hard to say because like
all of Wash was packed and like the
streets were packed and then the second
park was packed. But they had counted
like 7,500.
Wow. But it's hard to say. It was fun.
So I, you know, did you know that
Timothy Shalamé would show up? No. We
actually made jokes in the office being
like there's not a more unsafe place for
Timothy Shalomé to be at noon on a
Saturday. Like there's like it's a
security liability. Like he's not going
to We knew he'd say something, but I
think he's good. Like we did good press
for him, you know? So you're welcome,
little bro. Like you know, uh here's my
uh Venmo Cash App. What did you think
though when you got word that he was
there? I was so not concerned. Like we
were at the second park and I'm like,
you know, shuffling people through and
like, you know, running the contest and
uh my friend Paige taps me on the
shoulder. She's like, "Timothy's here."
I'm like, "I don't have time for this
right now." Like, like whatever. I'll
figure it out. Um, but it was cool. And
like I think he got a really There's
like a really iconic wholesome image of
like him and like two of the Timothies.
It was cool. It's cool to be a part of
like something bigger. Like I'm no
A-list. I'm just a guy who makes videos
and got to help him out. Help little bro
out. he needed the attention. So, well,
there's also this interesting note that
you chose anonymity around this, right?
Like you had an alias with Gilbert and
like the idea is at the forefront, not
you. And that's also something that's
kind of the antithesis to what we've
seen in the modern creator economy,
right? It's that it's it is the the
individual who's at the forefront. A lot
of the and the idea, the best creator is
the idea is at the forefront and the
idea leads, but oftentimes it's the
personality that leads. Um, so I find it
interesting that you put so much
emphasis on the idea that you chose to
be anonymous
in a world where like the concept or the
idea is rooted around someone who is
quite the opposite of anonymous, right?
Like Shalom is probably one of the most
popular people. Um, so what what made
this like a uh a win for you? And
actually the first thing I want to ask
you is
was this a reference to the Charlie
Chaplan lookalike contest? Because I
don't know if people know that, but like
I I mean, frankly, I didn't know that
until we were researching it a bit that
Charlie Chaplan there was a Charlie
Chaplan lookalike contest and Charlie
Chaplan didn't win. Yeah. He came in
like seventh or seventh. Yeah. Yeah.
That's fascinating. Was that something
that you were aware of going into this?
Okay. It was I think so much of what
makes good culture is like the the like
you take an original you take a concept
and you like innovate on it where it's
like again this happened what like 100
years ago. Um and I was like that was we
have like a laundry list of just like
things in culture that we love and hold
dearly and like that was one of them and
I was like what's the modern version of
that? And I I'm no longer like I had a
my my friends say I have I've had twink
death, but um I used to look like
Timothy Shalamé. Now I think I've I've
put on like 30 pounds. So the reason we
chose Timothy was like we were going to
make it we were going to throw it and
then make me win. But then as it gained
its own legs, we're like we need to play
this thing straight. Um but I want to
Wait, your original question. I'm stuck
on the twink death. I don't know what
that means. I got to be 100% honest. I
do not know what that means. Yeah, it's
basically I I used to get called on the
internet a twink a lot and then recently
I don't get it as much anymore, but um
yes, Charlie Chaplan, that's why I wore
the outfit. I was like, I want to like
pay homage to it, but like if you know,
you know, type thing and I learned how
to ride a penny farthing. Yeah. Um for
the bit and that was really fun. But um
to your point on the anonymous thing, I
think where I've kind of found my
footing right now is like I want to
inspire people that like my videos are
like low lift. Like they don't c they
could cost money, but like they don't um
and they're done completely anonymously.
And like I like the notion that like
like and I get it a lot now like people
are starting pages or doing new things
and I'll get a DM and they're like this
like you inspired me to do this and that
is like so much more impactful than
things I had done previously I think
where it's like I'm you know getting
people to get up and do their own thing.
So that's why I do the anonymous thing.
It's funny it feels almost anti-creator
in a way. Yeah. Right. Because the whole
idea of a creator is that they should
have a leg up. Like a lot of people want
creators to be in TV shows acting or
making their own shows or promoting
products because it's like, "Oh, they
have a face. People know it." But you're
taking it down to the root level of the
idea and at the end of the day, I feel
like it's giving you more credibility or
it's giving the idea credibility.
Yeah. I think in a perfect world, I
wouldn't ever have to reveal it's me,
but like I can't sustainably do it if I
don't make like a foundational piece at
the end of it. Mhm. Um meaning because
that's where the like income comes from
for Yeah. Like I make ad revenue, right?
And like realistically, if I wanted it
again to be a career, I would just make
commentary videos cuz I'd cash out a lot
more. But I think again, I like the idea
of like scrappily doing this and like
showing people that like it's there's no
secret formula. It's just people who
like do it for like something they love.
Like if you just put your heart and soul
into thing and like you think it's good
then it's not a matter of if it's a
matter of when. Right. It also you allow
time to
to to create your ideas. And I I I think
that's maybe an undervalued thing of
like, hey, I'm just going to spend time
on this idea right now. Mh. you know,
versus kind of like I I think again like
the the premise of being a YouTube
creator right now is like uh building a
media company and being like I got a
bunch of different projects going on
right now and I'm working on a bunch of
different videos and I'm releasing
weekly or I'm releasing monthly and like
you're just constantly
doing multiple things at once. And I get
the sense from the outside looking in
that you're kind of operating on like
here's the project right now. Right.
Yeah. It's actually funny you say that.
Like I'll get DMs occasionally or like
people will make posts about me being
like, "Dang." Like like the past 3
months I've been focusing on a large
project uh that just came out, but those
three months I was like uploading these
like random like almost like nothing
burger videos of like like a bad
hairline competition and like an Anthony
meetup. And I, you know, got DMs and
post like, "Wow, Anony's really lost his
magic. Like what's going on?" And it was
because I was like working on a larger
project.
I got one DM that was like uh it was
like yo bro like I don't know how to say
this but I just feel like your recent
videos haven't been the same like I
don't know what happened and then I
released my recent video and he just
responds like my bad like um so yeah
it's tough because like if you don't
play the YouTube game you know people
will be like what's going on or but I am
trying to just like be myself and like
make things that I care deeply about and
it's it's you know it's I'd rather give
a bunch of Timothies something to tell
their grandkids than to like play the
YouTube game, I guess, is my onus. So,
the day the day of the Shalom contest
ends, like let's see that that ends.
Were you immediately just like, whoa,
that was a success. And did you know
what was about to happen next? I had no
idea it was going to like be like a
cultural moment like across the globe.
Yeah. I knew that people were going to
do like And again, I encouraged people
to like do it themselves. Like I think
that's the beauty in it is like a
community event, right? Um so that was
really cool seeing it internationally
that I did not expect that week after it
was just like grinding the YouTube video
cuz everyone had already reported on it.
It's like can I like I need to almost
late to the to covering your own event.
I was the last person to cover the last
which is fine. Like again it's not about
like for me it's not about the YouTube
view, right? It's the fact that like I
can if someone's like what do you do for
a living? It's like I have to say it's
like, "Oh, I did the Timothy Shia look
like competition." They're like, "Oh,
what place did you get in?" I'm like,
"No, no, no." Like I like it was me and
like my friends. Um, so that is what I
care deeply about is just like that
whimsy is really cool. Yeah. Uh, we were
having dinner with this uh one of the
most interesting guys that I we've ever
had dinner with. His name's Sir John
Hegerty. Okay. It's like old school
advertising executive. He's 80 years
old. He's been in the advertising world
forever. And uh he said this thing to us
at at dinner. He said the original viral
concept was a joke
that like before there was verality
through the internet. There was a joke
and if somebody told a good joke, it
would make its way around the world.
Yeah. And he they like tried this thing
where they came up with an original joke
and saw if it would come back to them.
Oh, that's a banger. And often whoever
came up with the joke doesn't get
credit. People don't cite the person who
came up with the joke. They just spread
the joke. Yeah. which I feel like is
somewhat similar. Like there was a lot
of press that does not necessarily like
cite you as the person who orchestrated
it. Yeah. Did you feel left out at any
times? No, that's fine. Like that's what
I want. That's what I want cuz if I
wanted if I was doing this for like a
monetary gain or for the attention, I
wouldn't be doing this exact thing. Like
I' again, I'd be making more traditional
Yeah. You're smart enough about YouTube
to actually be a massive YouTuber and
make a ton of money being a YouTuber. I
think so. Or I could be like I've gotten
so I don't know how much of these I
could talk about. I've gotten tons of
crazy job offers um like the craziest
things I've ever seen uh like
politically high to like run social
medias. Um and I don't care for it. Like
I'd rather inspire people comedically
and like be a sure almost like a pusher
of culture and again make the type of
internet content that I wish existed. So
it's an incredibly powerful thing to
anonymous anonymously be able to bring
thousands of people into a space and
create something that spreads globally.
Like there are a lot of organizations
politically
companies who are like yes please give
us that. Yeah. Yeah. And so I'm I'm just
grateful that it's like, you know, I
like all of this could disappear
tomorrow. And I I've I've had a good
run. Like I'm very I'm stoked. I'm
happy. You know, when I first came back
to YouTube, I was kind of like rushed
into it cuz like friends were like,
"Just do it." Like, you know, one year
anniversary, like you've already filmed
a couple things. I was like, "All
right." And then I think that up until
my most recent project, I was like, I
don't know if it was worth it. But I
think now I'm at a point with like my
local community and friends and like
content where I'm like, it's dope. M
making content is dope. What do you
think about when SNL parodyied the child
may look alike contest? It was cool. I
mean, I don't want to like I I think you
guys probably like SNL cuz you're like
old and lame. But like Sure.
Fair. Yeah. I was So that was basically
my question like is it lame that they
covered it or is it cool? Yeah, I think
it's cool because to me it's like oh
that's a really big deal for me. That's
how I know if it crossed over in
culture, right? In a way. Yeah. Yeah.
That every millennial's told me that.
Yeah. How old are you guys? Like 42 or
Yeah. Yeah. we're in our 40s. Uh, no.
Yeah, I I am grateful for any sort of
attention that I've put into the world
like positively, but I don't watch SNL.
And the only experience I have with SNL
is uh they like stole one of my YouTuber
friends's like bits bar for bar. So,
that was the only thing. Oh, I saw that.
I saw that from Joel. Yeah. On TikTok.
Yeah. Um, yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. But
I mean SNL is a big company like
whatever. But, uh, it was cool. They
like even got my They like wore a white
belt and stuff. They did the whole bit.
I was like, "That's funny." It was cool.
Again, like I can't complain. And then
the Timothy's went on, which was
awesome, which is cool. And that's like
they're going to tell their grandkids
about that. And it's like I got to
facilitate that in like some capacity.
So yeah, it's amazing how undervalued
the like real life story is today. At
least I feel that when I talk to
creators that like you you do a craft
and then you film that craft and then it
turns into a YouTube video. Mhm. But the
craft is actually what's happening
that day. Yeah. And that's just like
that's not actually very common. The
craft that um you know a lot of people
do on YouTube I think happens in the
world of post-production. 100%. I I'll
fill you in by I'm not writing anything.
I just drew a cat smoking cigarettes.
Yeah, I was wondering what you were
doing. I have notes on the other side.
Um
uh no. So basically uh this is some of
my secret sauce is like I think the
internet right now is in like a the
internet right now is in like a
transition phase where people have kind
of done everything on the internet. Like
Mr. Beast just went to the the pyramids
of some what is it? Okay. Like that's
crazy. Yeah. Now I think what matters
more than that is like not the narrative
of the video but the meta narrative of
the page and who they are like that is
like that's what all these projects have
in common where it's like you know you
can talk about the video itself but
what's infinitely more interesting is
like everything around it right like a
guy eats a jar of cheese balls but like
he's anonymous and like why did he do it
like there's it's what I tell my friends
like when we're ideulating it's like
what is like the story past the video of
course right and So, um, that's why like
starting a brand new account, it's so I
can do it a million times over. Like go
from zero to 100,000 followers cuz
people want to be at the start of
something like that's like our urge to
like, you know, be a part of the meta
narrative. Like, I was here for a lot of
the comments for Kid with Crocs were
like, I feel like I'm witnessing
history. I think that's a common thread
with you, right? That they feel like
you're saying, I'm a part of the early
stages. And that's what I love. Like I
again I was such a consumer of culture
when I I mean even now but like back in
the day was all I did all day was play
video games and like watch things and so
I'm just using the same like fascination
I had with the internet to like pass
back right like most of my audience is
like two years younger than me but like
Kid with Crocs the recent project I did
was the first time I've ever had like a
fan under like 16 17 I was like oh like
these people like this this is part of
their like cultural media consumption. I
was like, that's really cool. Just on
the meta narrative, I'm going to say
something like pretty millennial to you
because it's rooted in like Amazon's
corporate structure. Yeah. But okay,
that's crazy. This is a crazy it's a
crazy lead in. But uh one thing that
that that Amazon does is when they're
going to launch a new product, they
force their team to write a press
release about the product. So how
someone would cover the launch of their
product and that's how a product gets
pitched. So how would the world talk
about this? And I think that's actually
something, you know, similar to what
you're talking about, right? Where it's,
hey, yeah, this is an idea, but how do
we think the world is going to talk
about this idea? What's the meta of this
idea? Because that's what makes it go,
right? Is if we actually have something
worth laughing about with your friends.
Like if you think about the real life
interaction between two people who are
laughing about the concept that makes it
inherently more viral than just thinking
about the the singular video. That's
Wow. Actually, it makes me kind of sad
knowing that like I am thinking parallel
to Amazon like Dude, you are so
corporate. I mean we're kind of making
equally as impactful things like you
know one of them is making like you know
real tangible change on the earth and
like you know shipping culture and ideas
out to people and the other one's Amazon
right so it's like maybe we shift this
from banksy of Tik Tok to the Amazon the
basos basos of Tik Tok okay so the
second point I was going to say wait
sorry go no go for I I think uh like I
could be using my cultural thoughts for
like nefarious purposes I think about
that often with like some of the offers
I've gotten
I'm like I don't know like I don't think
I have that special of a brain. Um but I
think I again I'm just constantly
thinking about the way people
psychologically perceive things and I
think it's like the way I see it is like
very evil people also have that same I
you know what I mean? Like not that
Amazon is evil. I love Amazon and our
corporate overlords. Shout out. Um but
yeah, so the the second thing I was
going to say is like uh around video
game culture and it's like we we've had
this conversation actually recently on
the show which is that I find that
people who played a lot of video games
are extremely good with the internet and
I think sometimes we forget how
interactive the internet is and how
interactive media is meant to be. Like
with the lookalike contest you
essentially created a real life meme
that everyone got to play with and
interact with. And it got so niche I was
going to show you this picture. Um I
took this picture on Abbott Kiny. says
Taylor Zakar Perez lookalike contest. I
was like, who is this?
I don't even know that. And it was like
$25 cash prize December 7th at Echo Park
Lake. And I was like, I don't even know.
This is now so niche that I don't even
know who this person is that people are
supposed to look like. Um, so you gave
the world like an interactive meme to
play with and to have fun with in real
life. And so I think that the nature of
like video games and playing video games
is you are a part of the story. You're
interacting with the story. And I think
if you're a kid who grew up playing
video games and chronically online, your
expectation of the world and culture is
that you get to play with it. It's
malleable. It's like somebody throws
something over the fence and you get to
throw it back versus like when we were
growing up with TV and media, it was
like a one-way street. It's like here's
the film for you, not you get to play
with it. And so I think to expand on
that, one thing that I've noticed is
beyond the like meta narrative of
creators, I find that like fame and
celebrity is currently created through
not through the celebrities account
themselves or through the creators
account themselves. It's actually
created through the interactive media
around it. So like Speed and Kai, I
think, are great examples of two of the
most culturally relevant creators. I've
never sat and watched one of their
streams, but I consume a lot of their
clips and not from their accounts just
from the platforms, from other people
clipping their content and playing with
their content in an interactive way.
Yeah, if you want, uh, here's some some
hidden ball knowledge. Um, do you guys
know what that like ball knowledge? Are
you guys tapped in? Okay, never mind.
Definitely tapped out. No, I think I
could guess, right? Like it's like oh
like you know when you know ball like oh
he knows ball. He knows ball. Yeah.
sports. Got it. Got it. Got it. All in
the hoop. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Point. You
guys will learn. Okay. So, some
knowledge. Every like fan page for like
a big artist is just run by the label.
Every like literally 80 to 90% of them.
And the ones that aren't are also paid
by the label to post about. And same
thing with like High Speed. It's like
all these clip channels are just run by
their teams and they're just they're
they're on retainers. I don't know the
FTC legality behind it, but it probably
doesn't matter since they're not like
it's not some they're not shielding
something. It's not necessarily an ad.
Yeah, it's not really an ad. So, it's
like in some gray area. Um, but yeah, it
there's like a it's almost Oh, cringe.
It's almost like a marketing funnel
where it's like
is coming out. You're so so much more
corporate than I thought. So cringe.
It's like um Are we destroying your
brand right now? No, you are. No, it's
fine. It's funny. I did go to school for
marketing. Oh, okay. Okay. But it was
Ruckers, so it was like nothing. What's
wrong with Ruckers, man? It doesn't
count. They never gave They never threw
me a bone my whole time there. I Bro, I
got so many damn people being like, "All
right, go to Ruckers cuz of you." I'm
like, "Where's my kickback?" Anyways, um
where's my affiliate link? That's what
I'm saying. I feel like I deserve
Everyone just expects an affiliate link
now. Um
they all run these pages. Um what was I
saying? Oh, yeah. Labels. Yeah. So it's
like a clip is so consumable and you
know these they have the money to spend
and then only a small small small small
percentage at the bottom are like fans,
right? But everyone's a viewer because
you pay these like big clip pages. Um so
like you know I've recognized that. I
just don't think I'm like a character
like that. Like I've thought about like
oh what's the universe where I'm doing
say little Twitch streams but I think I'
I'd rather just be a the figure I'm
where I'm at right now. I'm happy being
this figure as opposed to some like guy
being clipped. And I don't know. I like
the creativity. Clip pages place a lot
of bets, right? It's like, let's clip
out a thousand videos and see which ones
rise to the top. Yeah, there's lots of
like there's incentive programs where
it's like in in these creators as
Discords, it's they have like, oh, if
you get a million views, it's equal to
like 200 bucks, right? So, there's those
and then there's like bigger pages that
are on like retainers with these
creators where it's like you have to
make 25 posts a month, you get $1,000.
Um, so I say that because I feel like
it's the exact opposite of what you do.
Yeah. Right. Like if we're gonna move on
to Kid with Crocs. Yeah. Let's do it.
This is an instance and I'll let you
explain it, but where you collaborate
with Crocs and you've basically placed
one bet. Mhm. That you hope will work
because you're now working with a brand.
It's a performance street piece again
and you're placing a bet with a brand,
which is a very different scenario. If
you're just doing something on behalf of
yourself, you put up some posters,
doesn't work. It's like, "All right,
that one didn't work. Let's move on to
the next one. Yeah, but there's more
stakes with a brand and I think it's
also what makes it potentially more
interesting. So tell us about Kid with
Crocs. Uh Dang, he he had a full like
sequ for that. Like where are your notes
at? He's got a teleprompter right behind
you, dude. Oh, that's crazy. I never
even There actually is a teleprompter
behind this entire podcast is fake. I'm
acting. Um so let me just open my notes
here. Um that's just a drawing of a cat
with a cigarette. Um, yeah. So,
basically, uh, I have
I've been a creator for like 10 years
now. I used to do sketch comedy and then
I made like random in real life social
stuff and then I did skits. I was at a
Tik Tok house. I made college content. I
worked over at Beast for a bit and now
I'm doing, you know, random culturally
relevant things. The one thing that has
stayed consistent when like a brand or
an agency would ask me like, "Who's your
dream partner? Like, who would you want
to work with?" I would never have a
legitimate answer except like Crocs
because they don't work they work with
like Bad Bunny and like Justin B like
they don't work with losers, right? So
it's like a tougher ask. Um but after
the Timothy Shia lookalike competition
um my producer bestie Paige made a
LinkedIn post about it. I don't know if
you saw it. It was like maybe the second
or third most like LinkedIn post of the
month. It was about how we threw the
Timothy Sham lookike competition. It got
like 80,000 likes or something and the
upper management at Crocs saw it and
they were like, "We want to work with
this kid." So like the agency reached
out and they're like, "What do you want
to do?" Cuz it was from like the Croc,
it wasn't from the agency, it was from
Crocs. Um and so then like I sat down
with um Paige and some friends and we
came up with a bunch of ideas and we
settled on an anonymous was like
non-negotiable. I was like, that's like
what is moving me right now, like like
in my heart, like I want to do something
anonymous and I want to make a
character. And so they like the idea of
me putting Crocs on statues. And so I
basically from zero followers and like
zero seeding, zero ad pay, grew Kid with
Crocs from zero to 780,000
followers in 40 days. So, so Kid with
Crocs is essentially its own street
artist personality who has its own form
of art that you're saying goes around
the city and makes 3D prints Crocs and
puts them on statues. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. And you have no idea how hard it
was to articulate this thought to like
an agency. I'm like, "No, no, but like
they're like, "So, are you going to post
it on your account?" I'm like, "No, no,
no. Like, it's a new account and like
Ker Crocs is the character and they're
like, "So, how does it do well?" I'm
like, "Well, you just make a good
video." I can't imagine pitching to a
brand. I'm going to make this content.
I'm gonna put it on an account with zero
followers. They have to have a lot of
trust in you. Yeah. That this is going
to work and it's not just going to go
nowhere. Yeah. Well, I think it was
because like it was Crocs that asked and
not like the agency Digitas. um that
they were kind of just like we well we
trust you and and I had a lot of
contingency plans like my again it it
took up 3 months of my life kind of
maybe like probably like 70 days total
of like real intense work which is why I
was making these like dumb videos on my
main account. Um, but I had a lot of
like if it didn't blow up on the
accounts, it was like I had like a press
play and I had like bigger publicity
like it was like it wasn't a matter of
like if it would do well. It was a
matter of like to what capacity and like
where culturally it would do well. Um,
that was like my big pitch to them. It
was like just trust me like trust me,
bro. That was like and I think I had
like the previous back catalog of case
studies where I think they really let me
just do whatever I wanted. Um, and there
was a lot of gray area like no one's
ever done something like it before as
well. So, it was like a really weird
thing for them. But also, a conventional
brand deal does not work like this. No.
Right. And a conventional brand deal is
actually there's like a pretty built out
system for that. Hey, you know, Crocs
has a brief, you know, they want to
promote this new shoe. Can you just
integrate that into one of your YouTube
videos? All good. Thanks, man. You know,
like that's like a pretty built out
system. Yeah. So to challenge that
system is probably exponentially harder
for you and not necessarily more money,
right? No, not at all. Not at all. I
they I'm very grateful for even being
paid. Again, my dream brand being paid
in general is great, but like the amount
of work I did was like insane. Like I
should have just been paid like a
salary, you know what I mean? Like um
but it was because it came from such a
like meaningful place for like these are
Crocs. Yeah. Yeah. Like I love Crocs.
This is actually what I wore for the Why
does Gen Z love Crocs? Uh I think Are
they like a meme in themselves? Yeah.
It's like counterculture. Yeah. It's
like I first liked them because they
were comfortable and then people were
like they're ugly and I'm like well
that's kind of beautiful, isn't it?
Yeah. I'm excited about that. And
there's like there's Jibbits which like
you can customize your shoe and I think
that's really silly. Like it's it makes
you more approachable, right? Like I'm
very anti like like yo shout out wisdom
my boy. But like wisdom is amazing.
Amazing. But I'm like the antithesis of
that. Like I this is all thrifted. These
are like falling apart. Like I like you
just wear whatever as long as you're
like approachable. I mean that's like
the So I love Crocs. That was like the
big thing. They're like the
anti-selfserious,
which is kind of the whole thing we've
talked about or a lot of what we've
talked about. Yeah. It's hard to style
Crocs, right? Like it's not an easy um
and so that's why I was so excited. And
I think that the page also gave off that
energy of like again it was really just
it was me editing and doing all the
work. Um but I think I tried to so bring
us through what was it though like where
did it start? Did you hang up posters?
What's the evolution of this idea? So it
was first like scan the statues. Um so
it was like put Crocs on statues. That
was like the north star. But there's so
many angles to it where it's like we
need to like hang up posters because it
it'll help with like becoming a New York
thing and like I need to make amazing.
They didn't understand the reason why I
needed to make videos on it. They're
like why can't you just do it and people
will like organically see it? I'm like
well because that's it's not like a
Timothy Sha lookalike contest where it's
like a very fascinating thing that's
happening. Like it's like oh it's Crocs
on a bear. Like where do I even start?
Like if I'm a Twitter like meme account
it's not particularly funny. Um, so the
thing I kept pitching was like, I'm
going to use my knowledge as like a 10-y
year long content editor to just make
the best short form videos I can. Like
really just like put my heart into So
like I was working on vacation. Like I
was spending all my time editing these
videos for for like they're done like 40
seconds. They're stupid, right? Like um
so I made put Crocs on eight statues,
made eight videos and then hung up um
eight sets of 50 posters for each of
them. And that was just like an additive
because again like I had these
contingency plans where it's like I
planned the first four videos in their
entirety like scripting and like feeling
and like musicality and then the next
four was like socially listen to the
first four and like what were people
reciprocating? Um where did people you
know comment the most, engage the most
um and kind of make the next four like
that. Um and I when I pitch to a brand I
always talk about like the psychology of
consumption. This is now this is some
cringe stuff. all of marketing. Um I
don't know if you guys know like the the
principles of influence. Let's hear
them. Um it's social liking, scarcity,
consistency,
um authority, reciprocity,
um I wrote my my notes. Um and
similarity. So like those
psychologically like that's how we
consume those six things. You can wait.
Can you break those down again? Yeah. So
So and I tr and this is my secret sauce.
I actually shouldn't be giving this out,
but it's fine. I think everyone should
be a creator. Um, how we consume things
and are influenced by things. Every bit
of feeling and emotion we evoke can be
categorized into one of these six
things. Scarcity. When you say someone
is mysterious and has aura, that's what
psychologically you're trying to
describe. Like you upload once every
eight months and it's like a big deal.
That's a Michael Reeves. That's like,
you know, someone who's uploading high
quality, low quantity content. That's
people like that, right? Um,
consistency. the opposite of that in a
sense. It's like um uploading every day.
Like it's almost like when you come home
from school or work, it's like, "Oh, I'm
gonna watch this creator. Um I've come
to like like almost make it a part of my
routine." Mhm. Um and you could also
combine those two, right? Like you can
upload every year, but you do so
consistently. So you can combine those
two principles of influence.
Reciprocity. That was a big part of Kid
with Crocs where it's like this is a new
account and I am Kid with Crocs. I would
always respond to fans and like the
first thousand people that followed me,
I followed them back and like just had
full conversations with them. And so now
these people are like rooting for me and
in a way like I am not like like
manipulatively thankful like I'm just
thankful like you're here for the start
and like I would talk to them and like
those thousand people who I like gave
reciprocity to were in it from the first
second to the last second and like now
they're like fans of what I do and like
that's such a like lovely feeling both
ways, right?
uh consensus or social liking. This is
super important. It's like you are more
likely to watch a video that already has
a million likes because it is that
social proof like, oh, it already people
already like it, right? It's the same
reason why it's really hard to go from
an account with, you know, zero
followers, zero likes to a thousand
likes, but it's pretty easy to go from
like a million likes to a million and a
half likes, right? Yeah. I mean, that's
kind of an obvious one. Similarity, it's
what we talked about before. It's like
you want something that feels sim
similar. You want something that feels
similar but is ultimately different and
creative. That's where like creativity
comes in, right? You need to be able to
understand how people consume content
and then like innovate on that, right?
So, it's like, you know, there's best
practices like having your face in the
the first frame and like having text on
the screen, but also like if you follow
every single thing in the rule book,
people won't care. It's already been
done, right? Um, and that's where like
some of my weird creative urges come out
where it's like I have a character and I
animate and I make music for the videos,
right? And then authority, it's like if
you It's like if you're a doctor, like
Dr. Mike, right? Like people care about
that. Or if you're already a big
creator, you already have that like yep,
pos, right? Is that like a smart word,
chat? Is that smart? I'm seeing some
nods in the back. Let's go. Right. Um,
sorry to yap. So those are that is how I
think about how culture and consumption
works. And this has all been deep rooted
in my brain. And I learned this in AP
psych back in like sophomore year of
high school as I started like making
content. And this set of guidelines has
like not failed me cuz again like I I've
lived it. Like I consume content and
this is how I think about it. And maybe
again part of this and the way I like
neurotically think is like things will
change and maybe like big thing is like
Kaisenat and Speed are bigger than like
a Mr. bees right now culturally and a
part of that is because we've shifted
culturally away from like big grandiose
10-minute videos and people like
spending hours with a creator, right? I
think you guys talked about that, too.
Yeah, we said time spent is
a boy. Let's go. Let's go. Somebody
watches Colin and Samir.
Um, so yeah, those are my thoughts and
that's kind of like that's how I managed
to get them on board where it's like
he's like, "Oh, he's smart." I'm like,
I'm lying. Wait, so what what talk
through Kid with Crocs and what it fits
into there? Because it doesn't
necessarily check off every box, right?
It's kind of like like how many of those
boxes do you feel like you need to
check? Yeah. I mean, you could only
check two of them and it you can still,
you know, get people to care, right?
Ultimately, that's a word I haven't said
yet, getting people to care, like that's
so much more meaningful than getting 10
million views on a video. Think about
how many videos have 100 million views
and it goes nowhere. Like, how do you
get someone to care? And like that's
through like heart and soul. Like you
can follow these to a tea, but if you're
not making something impactful, like
people will see through it. Like
scarcity. Um I'm only doing eight
videos. Like the bio of Kwood Crocs was
the eight statues and like I slowly exed
them out as I did them. Um I don't think
that was super important. Um
consistency. I uploaded every 5 days.
That was the hardest part was I was I
pitched them. I'm like, "Hey, I need
three months to do this." And they're
like, "You have 40 days." And I'm like,
"I'm screwed. Like this is not going to
work." uh but it luckily did reciprocity
it's like I followed people back. Um
consensus again I knew once it took off
I'm making really quality content so
it's only you know a matter of time. Um
similarity
I think most artists street artists 3D
artists they think they're too good to
follow like trends and sounds and put
text on the screen. And that's something
I was like I can't be afraid to use
Proxy Manova font like the Tik Tok font.
Like I can't be afraid of that. I can
let my artistry shine through in other
ways, but I need to be familiar. Um, and
then authority. I think that Oh, you
laugh. Oh, what's so funny? A big font
guy. I just
There we go. Great. I just love font. I
think he was just excited that there was
a font drop on the show. Yeah. Yeah. I
just love the idea of Look, I can't be
afraid to use Proxima.
So, I'm like, yeah, man. Like, have the
courage. Yeah, I took a lot out of it.
It's the idea that matters. Give me top
three fonts. I mean, I got to put
Helvetica at the top, right? And then
probably like Helvetica new and then
maybe like new Hoscroesque. Oh wow. It's
mainly just like a Helvetica joke
because they're all basically Helvetica.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm fascinated why you
hate yourself. It's an interesting
It's just a perfect font, man. It is a
good font. I I will not deny. My
favorite's Thunderman. It's what I use
for like my It's It's niche. Yeah.
That's like the Crocs font. Yeah, it is
like the Crox font. I get it. It's It's
like my If you've ever seen one of my
videos, I'm sure you haven't because you
guys are like employed, but it's like um
we're employed by who? By ourselves.
It's better than other I don't even have
health insurance. We actually work for
Amazon. Yeah.
[Laughter]
Um yeah, it's like a it was it was
actually the font used in Adventure Time
and it's like a cute little like
handdrawn font. By the way, I've se I've
seen your videos. I know the font. Yeah.
Don't It's not like I don't watch your
videos. Thank you for the ad revenue.
Yeah. Also, for the record, I have my
own custom font handd drawn. He does. Do
you? Yeah. That's awesome. Thanks.
That's so beautiful. I'm not all
Helvetica all the time. Yeah. Good boy.
Um, okay. And yeah, that's pretty much
it. I think the thing this doesn't
account for is like like effort almost.
That's kind of like authority. I kind of
chalk that in there. Like the one thing
I really tried to do in all the videos
was just like show how much time I'm
spending. Like the one video uh I put
Crocs on Paul Manship's group of bears
in Central Park. like the one bit. And
again, pitching this to Crocs was so
like I felt like an idiot. I'm like,
"Okay, I'm gonna put honey at the base
of the statues, but I'm going to hang up
posters for honey taste testing and
bring in a bunch of taste testers and
have them pick their favorite honey and
then put that honey at the" And they're
like, "Well, why do you need to do
that?" I'm like, "Well, like it's funny.
Like, I don't know. Like, it just I was
like, "It is good. Like, just trust."
Like, it's just if I saw that, I'd be
like, "That's so dumb and beautiful."
Well, high effort, low stakes is
inherently funny, right? That is inher
like the justosition of that is
inherently funny. Always. It's always
funny. It's like why are you My favorite
creator right now, one of my favorite
creators. They're so It is like the
perfect intersection between art and
content and just like what I love about
the internet is um Sunday Nobody. You
might have seen one of his videos. It's
one of the highest performing long short
form videos I've ever seen. He made like
an art piece of raccoons in a dumpster.
Highly recommend to check this out.
Okay. It is amaz It was kind of like
what I was pitching to Crocs is like I
want them to feel similar to this but
like my own style and like artistry. He
like he calls himself a meme artist.
It's beautiful. I highly I think it is
like again we talk we're we're like
oraorising content right now where
everyone's like I think people are
finally realizing like wait like I
lowkey shouldn't be making Mr. Beast
videos like everyone's finally like oh
wait like there's more to content. Sure.
Sure. Um, so now I think it's like how
do we innovate? And Sunday Nobody is a
great example. Another thing that's very
important and I think people get lost in
the sauce here.
Not all likes and views are made the
same. And I think people still don't
realize that, but like 800,000 likes on
this is like an army versus 800,000
likes on like some kid like like this
with like text on top of the screen.
It's still cool and like you should be
very happy that you have that. But like
no one's talking about a meme that has
800,000 likes the way I'm talking about
this guy Sunday nobody. Yeah. You know
what I mean? Totally. Yeah. I think uh
people undervalue depth quite a bit,
right? And they overvalue width. And so
I think I think you're you're absolutely
right. I think even a 100,000 like
100,000 views on like a personality vlog
or even like I was telling Colin this
morning that you have a video after your
cheeseball man fight that's just titled
I fought him and it has almost 600,000
views. Mhm. Those are very powerful
views. Mhm. Because that title thumbnail
is not algorithmic by any means. That is
not for like a random passerby view,
right? That is for a core community.
Mhm. And we we always talked about like
this one Emma Chamberlain video that's
called You Totally Caught Me Making
Soup. That's a great title. That's
banger. That's actually really funny.
Yeah. And it's like that has like
millions of views and it's just
emblematic of like how massive her
community is. Yeah. So yeah. Anyway, Kid
with Crocs. Kid with Crocs. And that was
pretty much it. I mean, you know, it was
like a weight off my chest finishing it
cuz um it was like now I can get back to
my own stuff. And then the video was
very wellreceived. Lots of people were,
you know, giving me some flowers and
Crocs liked it obviously and the the
YouTube video like that was I just did
that because I wanted to like it wasn't
part of the deal. The deal was like I
make these eight videos and that's it.
Like that was the deal we cut. And so it
was considered a success for Crocs.
Yeah. And I think they don't realize it
yet. But I think that as like awards and
like LinkedIn posts and like articles
are coming in, they're like wait cuz
again they don't get like in their head
it's like well the Washington Post
didn't write about it yet so what the
heck it's not successful. But like all
these pe like I haven't gotten like fan
art of myself like consistently in a
long time cuz like my fan base is a
little older now. Like when I first
started, you know, I but Ka Crocs like
people were like fans enough to like
make sketches and make their own like
like use the sound like it was very
culturally significant to a group of
people and I'm very grateful. I mean you
essentially launched a new brand mascot
if they wanted it, right? It's like a
very intricate way to launch a new
character for their universe, right?
That maybe younger audiences are
interested in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And if
they want it, I mean, I got a price tag
on, you know. Yeah. Is that part of the
deal? That's like you own the account.
That was one thing that was
non-negotiable was like uh I get that my
only thing I fought on on like the red
line for the contract was like I want
award show credit. Like if if it comes
down to an award show, like I want to be
recognized for it and I want to be the
owner of the account. Like you guys can
have to sign off on posts I make, but
like at the end of the day, my account
because I'm gonna put my love into this
account and I don't want it to just be
yoked on some like, you know, YouTubers
will make a show with a company and then
they'll just like take it away. Right.
Right. Right. And not that I think I
love Crocs so much and they're great and
do that to me, but you know, you just
never know. So, what were the ways that
fans of Crocs were interacting with the
videos, interacting with the statues?
like what was the experience that Crocs
is looking at and being like, "Oh yeah,
that's that's positive for us." Yeah. I
mean, I think the attention and like the
positive attention was so good. Like at
the heart of like product placement, for
example, is just like positive
association, like almost subliminal
positive association with a thing. And
at the end of the day, in a weird way,
kid with Crocs was not about Crocs. Like
it's about storytelling and like
creativity, right? So it could have been
kid with Converse realistically and the
videos would have kind of been the same,
but um you know to them it's like
there's over like 55 million views that
are like very positively associated with
Crocs now. Like all of K I maybe got
like three in any capacity hate comments
on the entire thing. Sure. Um up until
the reveal where obviously like some
people are like oh it was a YouTuber the
whole time. That's fine. I mean expected
cuz it was a huge thing. Yeah. Um, but
again, I think it's just me and like I
this this kid I met named Danny voicing
it like made me a cool lighter. So,
there's always going to be contractors
and stuff, but uh I think again
they probably pay bajillions of dollars
for like a K-pop star to just wear the
shoe. Mhm. They paid me like very
grateful scraps to like put on this like
wellthoughtout campaign. So I I think
they'd be hardressed to think of like uh
any any anything negative about the
thing in hindsight. I do think it's
important to like explore why it matters
to a brand. Like why does that matter to
Crocs, right? Like what what what is a
win in their world from from the brand
side? because I think we we've been
exploring a lot like how do brands and
creators actually engage with each other
moving forward past the like 60-cond
brand integration. Uh and I think just
maybe the the simplest equation is that
positive sentiment and awareness lowers
customer acquisition cost easily, right?
Like that's just the if you're just
going and you said it, not me, but like
marketing funnel-wise, you know, then
we're your words, not mine. We are the
Amazon podcast. Welcome back everybody
to Amazon the podcast. We're going to be
talking about key performance indicators
and I don't know, marketing jargon. It's
all you, man. I didn't I didn't bring it
up. You're running the show. You're the
one who went to Ruckers. The big R. The
big R. Oh, the alma moater. Scarlet
Knights. But yeah, come on. That's a
Jersey boy right there. You think I'm
not from New Jersey? Oh, man. We have
fun here. But it does, right? It like
inherently if you positive sentiment
also. Where does that come from? It
comes from like you being a part of you
being cool with my friends. Mhm. Right.
as a brand like, "Oh, is Crocs cool with
the crew?" Oh, okay, cool. They're
they're cool with my group of friends,
so I guess I feel positively about them,
you know, and and we always kind of
explore. It's really hard from a brand
perspective to not show up to the party
like a weird stranger.
Like, how do you show up to the party
and blend in and be cool? And it's hard,
but it's actually like Kid with Grocs is
a great example of that. And like my
perspective is that that activation that
that like campaign should win awards.
It's really unique. Thank you. It's a
very unique concept to to bring like a
major brand into the world of Tik Tok
like that. And and honestly, credit to
them for like agreeing easily cuz
there's not that many brands I don't
think that would agree to that.
What you could have made eight videos
that no one watched and the account the
account could not have grown is a real
reality. Mhm. What were the pitch
meetings like? Like how easy was it for
them to agree? Uh, I think I'm a good
yapper and I think I I'm one compliment.
Oh, it's not really a compliment. One
thing I've heard a lot recently is that
I'm very neurotic. I chat, is that good?
Is neurotic good? Oh, I'm seeing some
Oh, man. Nobody's reluctant. No one's
reacting to you.
Chat is silent. Uh, W's in the comments.
Yo, oh my gosh, I love the thing you
guys do when you're on someone else's
podcast. You're like, now make sure you
guys follow. Make sure you subscribe.
That's like we do that. We do that. We
do that. You guys have done it before
where like you're on somebody else's
page and you're like, "Let me help you
out real quick." And then you tell
There's no chance. We don't help the
community out. We barely I got No.
That's what I like about you guys. How
anti-creator and anti-consumer. I'm
about to burn this just so you know.
Yeah. Take this back. Um what were we
talking about? The Zoom call. Yeah. One
of the Zoom calls. I think um I am very
passionate about my ideas and I always
come with a plan. Again, it's like I
didn't get arrested at the Timothy Shaé
thing, but if I would have, it would
have been fine. Like we had everything
planned. Like we had a video made.
That's the one video we came with ahead
of time where was like we got arrested.
Yeah. Got it. Um so again, if What do
you mean you came with it ahead of time?
Like you just had that planned out or
you actually shot it? Yeah, we shot it.
Yeah. Yeah. We shot like a video on the
if I got arrested, we were I had my
producer on ready to release like the
thing like almost like a a tape to the
audience of like I'm in jail now. Yeah.
That's really funny. So that type of
like neuroticism of like like I want to
be prepared if the videos get no views.
And I can and the one thing I said to
them over and over again I'm like you
need to trust me like if you just make
good videos they get views. And that's
one thing they couldn't understand and I
get why cuz when you are a brand just
like following trends you're like well
we follow the trends and no one cares.
It's like well because you're not giving
people something to talk about. You're
you're following a trend. You're not
making one. Um you know you're not
pushing a boundary. You know it's not
like slapstick. It's like it it's hard
to articulate that thought to somebody.
I mean, it's even hard for me to fully
understand from you like why did you
know people would talk about it? And and
the only ways I can understand it is the
juxtaposition of like high effort, low
stakes. Like that to me is inherently
interesting of like turning to someone
and being like this is so weird, right?
But is there another reason that you
knew that people would talk about it? I
just I think so much of being a content
creator and like an artist is just
consuming it. So if like I I can I've
been doing this for 10 years. I think
the one skill I've always tried to
improve at is viewing what I make from a
third party. Sure. Like what would a
rant like I make the what I'll usually
do is I'll make it and then I'll leave
it alone for like two days and then I'll
watch it with fresh eyes. I call it the
fresh eyes watch and from there I'll be
able to say like what? No, it's okay.
You just say the amount of frameworks
you have. Should I die? Funny. You're
like, I watch it with fresh eyes. You
know what I call that? The fresh eyes
watch.
Oh man, I'm going to get made fun of for
this podcast. Um, yeah. So, after I
watch it, then with the fresh eyes
watch, I it's easy for me to be like,
well, this is cringe or this is bad and
this is and I think as long as I am not
afraid to be part of the zeitgeist, like
I should be watching like Kaisenat and
Speed. don't. But um like I should be
like I shouldn't be afraid to engage
with this culture because it helps me
stay like sharp, right?
Yeah. Because also like it seems like
you're a fan of psychology and like how
humans engage with the world. And I
think anything that is attracting that
much attention and creating that much
culture like you have to study it if
you're a fan of this world or if you
want to be an artist like most great
artists are referencing what's happening
in the world, right? That's like what
why it connects is because it's
commentary on what's happening. Yeah, in
our world. So, I think Kid with Crocs
worked because it's the same formula of
just for the love of the game. It's just
a different character. It's like Can you
read that comment? There's a comment in
your YouTube recap video about Kid with
Crocs that I wanted to bring up to you.
It says about YouTube versus Tik Tok.
Yeah. It says like this feels like
premium. It feels What does it say? It's
like feels like such premium Tik Tok,
but it feels like YouTube video. This
feels like premium Tik Tok. It's a
YouTube video condensed essentially was
the comment. Yes. And there was another
one too that was like did I just pay for
premium Tik Tok? Yeah. So I want to
explore this premise of like why why
that distinction between YouTube and Tik
Tok. What do you think the difference in
the platforms is and like why can this
My assumption is Kid with Crocs would
not work on YouTube. Yeah. I didn't Oh,
you posted that. We posted. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So my assumption is it would not
work there because like culture doesn't
move the same way on those two
platforms. Yes. So what I've realized
about YouTube and you know when I was at
Beast we made both Tik Tok and YouTube
like Tik Tok and Instagram are
culturally based and I think YouTube is
like you need to follow like setup
punchline like you need to follow it it
is kids like YouTube shorts is majority
kids. If you want like the 100 plus 100k
plus likes like echelon of content you
need to be making kids content
realistically or like gamer more niche
stuff. Um, and so I think there's a
universe where Kroc stuck, but it was
not. I was like, it's a nice to have
will post. I'm not going to spend any
time like part of my strategy for like
Tik Tok and Instagram was like, I want
to interact with people. I want like to
be like I was like making friends and
stuff like creators who I look up to
like Mike D. He's like a director.
Followed Kid with Crocs. Like I DM'd him
back. I'm like I'm making friends like
I'm in this thing. There's no And I
think they're trying. YouTube I think
are going to start rolling out like
profiles and stuff. M I've been getting
sussed out about that. Um in a good way.
Like people are staking out your house.
I got I got the shot. No. Uh you mean
they're essentially rolling out
profiles, DMs, direct messages? I think
so. I I've been getting and I know why
they're hesitant to, but I've been
getting the vibe. Something happened
recently in the YouTube studio app where
they're like, "We're rolling out
something in profiles." I was like, um,
so I think, you know, YouTube you have
to be a bit more formulaic. It's a lot
of kids. It's there's less room for like
real creativity. Um, and I I make more
normie stuff I think right now. Like I
am a gamer and I've watched more anime
than I think anybody I've ever met. Um,
but I think right now what's moving me
is like a Tik Tok and Instagram because
it's like more of like the people I hang
out with. Like I hang out with like
people who work in corporate America and
like are you know goofy but not like
like I can't bring up like anime to my
friends right now cuz they're like oh
like what's that? So I think it's where
my brain goes right now. It's also a
unit like we've said this quite a bit
but it's a unit of conversation. Like a
Tik Tok is a unit of conversation or a
Instagram reel is a unit of
conversation. It's meant to be shared.
Mhm. It's It's actually like the success
of that is if a ton of people share it
and DM it to their friends. Yes. Versus
like the success of a YouTube video is
actually somebody watches it until the
end. Yes. Those are two separate things.
Yes. Right. A unit of entertainment and
a unit of conversation. That's a good
You should start a podcast. I don't know
if anybody has ever told you guys that,
but like I feel like it'd really take
off. Yeah. So, I I'll tell you what,
I'll think about it. Yeah. Um, I want to
ask I want to uh loop back to you said
you had contingency contingency plans
for Kid with Crocs. For kids with Crocs
if it didn't work. So, what were the
contingency plans? Uh, bigger and
crazier publicity stunts like if if all
things were going bad, I was going to
put Crocs on like more politically like
The Bull. The Bull was one where I was
like I would never put Crocs on like a
historical figure, but The Bull feels
like it it would definitely get people
talking. The Wall Street the Wall Street
Bull, right? So, if you don't know the
Wall Street Bull, it was put there as
kind of like a statement piece against
Wall Street, right? Um, and it was
dropped there like um gorilla style and
then people just liked it so they kept
it. Um, so I knew putting Crocs on that
would get people talking, but I I didn't
want to be controversial off the rip.
like I didn't want to um you know I I'd
like to stay away from it. I mean at the
end of the day I'm working with a brand
so there's always that like air of like
you know I I don't want to like ruin the
meaning of this beautiful sculpture. So,
I had those. The posters were a big one
where it's like if the page isn't taking
off, I'm going to 10x the posters and
have this be more of like a people are
just it's on a like it was probably on
between like 300 and 400 people's
stories like screenshots I got of people
just posting it and tagging me
throughout the city. But I was going to
ramp up production there. Um, if that
didn't work, I was going to try long
form YouTube um, and just make a really
good like 20-minute video on all the
like the process of it and all on some
like Michael Reeves um, type editing.
Um, and then past that, like carousel
posts were a big thing. Like sometimes
carousel posts really bang, especially
on Tik Tok and Instagram. I did one bit
and I posted the first day it had like
10,000 likes. I'm like, dang, I'm going
to take this down. and I I kept it up
and now it has like I think like 300,000
likes. Let me see if I can find it.
Hairous I think I think more like 23 24
year olds that's like a big thing for
them. Like by no means is this like I
made a video of this and I'm like it's
not funny. But then I made it in a
carousel and said well I just hung up
these posters.
What are those?
Looking for somebody to wear a lampshade
for an hour. $30 reward and then someone
texted me, "Hey, I saw your poster. I
found my calling." And then it's me and
him and and he was there for an hour.
And what does it have to do with Kid
with Crocs? So, this was like the other
direction I was going to take it. The
other it was going to just be like like
I'm going to put Crocs on statue and
then I'd do the thing and then it would
be it. Like that was like I did it a
couple times in the beginning and it did
pretty well. Like I did uh see Oh yeah,
like I made this poster and it said I
made 3D crocs for the bear statue. Life
is good and then mom texting me, you
better not be putting Crocs on statues
again. Nobody can stop me and then it's
the thing and then it's the Jibbits and
then it's a little drawing I made. Okay.
So, it could be more It'll be less of
like a talking point, but the post will
do like this has 75k likes. So, Kid with
Crocs was basically like an absurd
superhero. Yeah. Just like I think
there's something beautiful about a
carousel post. Like I'm not like again
it's like a love of the game type thing.
Like you're not making ad revenue off of
a carousel post. It's kind of like a
beautiful artsy thing. lots of like art
pages I follow just do carousels and I
think that was like the other direction
I was going to take it. It's also again
it's interactive media. I I have to
progress the story myself with my own
finger and I actually think that's like
maybe it's it's radically simple what I
just said but I actually think that you
should always think about how your media
is interactive 100%. Right. You said you
had traditional press routes as
contingencies. Was that like putting
crocs on the bull? Yeah. And then I had
like you just knew that that people
would pick that up. people pick it up
and then after the Timothy thing like I
have a press list now of like hundreds
of people who are like next time you do
something like let us know and I've
never used that card because I that
feels like an in case of emergency.
Yeah. And also I think again it feels
cheating like a part of like Kid with
Crocs wouldn't have felt as like special
and beautiful to me if I used a press.
You know what I mean? Like for sure. Um
it doesn't come from sort of means it
maybe didn't work. Yeah. Yeah. People
didn't take to I think there's this, you
know, the the previous version of
culture in media is trickle down, right?
The press or like big studios would kind
of dictate to us what the story was,
what culture was. And the new version is
like from a very small place and out.
Yes. Right. It's like trickle out versus
trickle down. And so I think like if you
went the press route, it's like fine,
but it's following an old playbook of
like big headlines tell you what the
story is versus like small communities
dictate the story. Yeah. Of culture. And
so I think the way you did it is more in
line with the way the world is working
today. And it's a more of a like
validation of that is how culture is
created is from small communities. Yeah,
that's a beautiful way to think about
it. Is poster space getting competitive
the same way that like the same way that
like YouTube thumbnails are competitive?
Yes, that's a you know what it's funny
as like a little squad we talk about it
often now where it's like we're on the
tail end of posters for us. Like we like
to be at the front of culture and like
push the needle now that every
everybody's doing poster bits now like
and it's bad when like brands are doing
it and not even doing it right. Like
I've seen and I get I get added in them
all the time like like the Superman
movie being like like Rex lookalike
competition and it's not a real thing
and it's a cartoon and it's like there's
it makes no sense and so everyone's
hanging up posters right now and I think
it it was fun while it lasted. I think
at the heart of the posters was just
like being able to gather people. So
we've been talking about like do we just
use my platform and like New York City
community and just throw the event and
like it's okay if people know it's me
and then just focus on the video. Uh,
but yeah, poster space is legitimately
and I'm surprised no one like it's
technically not illegal to hang up
posters if it's not like a for-profit
like they'll never come after you, but I
have hung up a lot of posters. Like I've
hung up a lot and you know I do usually
go back and tear them down cuz I usually
do the same route and I'll just like and
so I don't feel that bad. I'm not like
I'm crazy. You did one that was like
take a selfie with this cat. Yeah, it's
ridiculous. That's my most successful
video probably ever. Really? Take a
selfie with this cat. It has like over
100 million views. Explain that to me
cuz I haven't seen it. Um, it's it's the
only video I've probably ever made that
is uh completely like you don't need to
speak English. My stuff is very like
American. Yeah. Yeah, totally. Or did I
say that? Was that stupid? Chat, my
stuff is very American. My stuff is very
English or Yeah, it's just corporate.
Everyone's looking at me like I'm
stupid. I want to go home. Um, chat is
not engaging with you at all. They're
doing nothing. They're looking at me
like I'm Oh, you
um anyways, so I This is actually the
same set of posters as the Timothy
Shalomé ones. It was like we I think we
did like six or seven. Um Oh, and I'll
I'll show you the video and I'll talk
about it cuz it's really funny. Yeah.
And it just keeps going and it keeps
going. So, basically concept is there's
a photo of a cat on a poster. It says
take take a selfie with this cat and
text it to the email or email it to me.
email it to this email. So then he has a
ton of photos of people who took a
selfie with this guy. So you don't even
have to post it on your own account.
It's not asking you email. And then I
did a a cute compilation and it has uh
27 mil on here and it has like 12 on
YouTube and a couple mill on Tik Tok. It
gets reposted on like Twitter and Reddit
like every week and it'll always and
it's like I I retweeted it recently and
I was like if you ever want to get free
views on this platform just retweet just
post this video and pretend like it's
yours cuz it just always gets posted. Um
and I love that. I think that's one of
my favorite. Talk to me about how that
follows like either the principles or
what the anatomy of that concept is and
why it hits because I still think that
there's like you clearly have this
intuition that I think people don't
have. Yeah. I think
the internet, bear with me, chat, the
internet can feel very uh self-indulgent
and kind of like evil almost like
attention. Like we live in an attention
economy and bad actors will always try
to utilize your attention to promote a
product or to have you engage with their
content, whether it be hateful or
otherwise. Um, and sometimes like a
wholesome video scratches like the
perfect itch. Like it's like, you know,
a proposal video like um this cute dumb
dog on a skateboard, right? Um, and so
sometime like every few months I'm like
it's time to make like wholesome chungus
video. Do you know that? And I'm sorry
I'm like brain rotting all nothing.
Yeah. No chance calling. Yeah. I've
never heard that word in my life. Yeah.
Yeah. Um, and so yeah, like I I think I
love that he's not gonna explain it to
you. Chungus, big Chungus. Wow. I I
should not exist anymore. Does someone
have like a large metal pipe to like
smack me in the head with? Um, yeah. I
think I again I just view it from like
third person POV. Like if I when I had
the idea for this of just like I want
people and it was such a low lift like
maximum all up all in this video took
maybe five hours to make. Yes. like
between making a poster, hanging them
up, putting them all in Photoshop,
uploading, and then we had to wait like
two months for all the things to get in.
But um I just know that if I saw this on
our for you page, I would be like, "This
is beautiful." Like, it's the
intersection of internet meme and art.
Like, it's so dumb and it's awesome. And
there's like layers to it, too, where
it's like each of these people have
their own story and like didn't know how
big I mean, we emailed them back being
like, "Hey, we're going to put this in a
video." Um, they were all cool with it,
but they didn't know what like it's
humanity just doing a thing. Um, and I
think that I, yeah, I view a lot of
these like anonymous things like
emotionally like I can look at these
like principles of influence, but
sometimes like you just have to like let
your heart open and be like, is this
dumb and beautiful? And if the answer is
yes, then like I knew this bang. I was
like, it's humanity saying I'm here too.
Like I was here during this thing. Yeah.
Not that it's that deep, but like but
how we actually long for that video. Can
you chill? Sorry. Is that just like that
like big time?
Oh god. There was a video that Neistat
made about this like fish pond in in in
Brooklyn. And it kind of reminds me of
that where it's just like
uh it it it's void of like the the
natural incentives that we all live with
every day. And I think that's what's
nice about it. Like that's also void of
like I can't even understand the
overarching incentive of this. Like I
don't know where it could be evil or
capitalistic or anything. It's just a
thing. Yeah. It's just nice. Yeah. You
know, and I think that's uh that's
scarce. So like that does play into that
scarcity principle which I really like.
Which is why you have to be careful when
you do incorporate brands because if
people feel like at the end of it that
they did get got with capitalism then
they can be unhappy. Did people feel
that with kid with Crocs when you kind
of announced hey I I did this like this
is my thing. Yeah. There's a partnership
with Crocs where people are like gh I
just got sold to. Yeah. I think I mean
people are going to feel that way. Um,
but I think the the mass majority of
people didn't. And I think because it
came from a real place, like I the DMs I
had with Crocs being like, "I want to
work with you guys was real." And like I
had a public tweet about it. Um, and
again, I easily could have just shield
this on my feed. Like I could have just
been like, "Buy Crocs." Like um, and I
think it came from a place of real I
just wanted to make art. Like this is an
art project that they are essentially
just funding.
Um, and again, like it's funny because I
view what I do as so stupid and that's
why it's holds so dearly to my heart.
But like people in the comments were
arguing about like Andy Warhol and like
the Campbell suit like this is real
artistry like just cuz of and there was
like 45 replies of people fighting over
like what real art is. The end of the
day I think like it's I would feel got
in a way but also it's like it doesn't
take away from like the enjoyment of the
videos. M um and like again like the
story is still there like whether you
appreciate it or not like it was like me
and my friends and it was like a real
conversation that I had with Crocs being
like I would love to work with you guys
and them trusting me and like literally
I think the only feedback they ever gave
me the whole time was uh one time we
uploaded a video and forgot to blur
people's faces. Oh, I see. Well, cuz I I
was busy putting up Crocs uh for April
Fools. like we reprinted and put them
back up. And so I had Danny like really
quick finish an edit and he uploaded it
and I'm like you forgot to blur people's
faces. Not that like it but I was like
it's smart thing to do. Um so like we
took it down. That was the only note
they had ever given. Interesting.
They're like you should and it wasn't
even them. It was like the agency.
They're like you should probably just
take it down and put it back up. Do you
think it's cool if it comes back or no?
Is it over? Like if if Crocs was like
hey we want to do another campaign.
Let's bring back Kids with Crocs. Or is
it is it over? I mean I I offered them.
I was like, I'll do another eight. But
they were I think corporate they're they
were already they took a huge gambit in
the first place. They're probably
stressed. They're like, we're good. I
already got them all the good press.
It's like when you go skydiving once,
you don't want to go again. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm not going
say about you. Wait, who's saying what?
Don't worry about it. Yeah. Yeah. Um,
you keep referring to yourself as a
YouTuber. Do you really do you see
yourself as a YouTuber? Cuz I think one
of the things that I find really
interesting is I wonder if in five or
you know 10 years it's just a base
assumption that like artists and
creatives also make YouTube videos right
like Jacob Collier who's a musician that
we had on the show. He's a musician but
he also makes YouTube videos. It's not I
I would never call him a YouTuber but he
makes YouTube videos. I wouldn't lead
with YouTuber but I think you make
incredible YouTube videos. Like I want
to like underscore underline that like
we're talking a lot about the
performance art, but the kid with Crocs
standalone YouTube video is incredible.
The like the storytelling of that. I
would urge everyone if you're like if
you're listening to this and trying to
get bits of like what's happening here?
What does this guy do? Like watch that
video because I think you'll see the
artistry in not only the performance art
but also like the way you tell the
story. You're an excellent editor. Thank
you. Like excellent excellent excellent
editor. There's a moment in that where
you're hosting to camera and there's
kind of like a noise that happens to
your left. Mhm. And then it hard cuts
and the animated character kicks down
the door and comes in. It's a that's a
very intricate edit. Thank you. That
happens there and a very amazing moment
of storytelling. There's also another
thing that happens where I don't
remember what the information is, but
you're holding two pieces of paper. Mhm.
And it says like one day Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. and three something I don't
remember what it was three months oh one
account three months something like that
something like that but you're just
communicating information but like I was
telling Colin like to do that what you
did with the paper visually is like such
respect for my time and my attention and
I think Neistat did that really well too
if like I I don't know like for us that
was like reference point for for YouTube
right like when when Neistad's daily
vlog started emerging that was like whoa
this is this is a new way of
storytelling and even the way that like
he wouldn't do text on screen all the
time. He'd write it on his hand and go
like this. Yeah. Right. Or like he would
uh it's so unnecessary. He just made a
video about having lunch and it's
unbelievably unnecessary. He does this
graphic of Monday through Friday and
puts in these pieces of colored paper of
how many days he has lunch with his
friend Jordan. I think a great example a
great example is when he explained
Snapchat stories for the first time. He
used a piece of pizza and he would
remove slices as you're watching to show
how ephemeral it is. Yeah. It's just
again it's like that's that's another
version of like high effort, right? It's
a high effort relatively low stakes. Uh
and it just makes it really fun to watch
and you do these like very intricate
things in very short short amounts of
time where you're like, "Oh, that took
you a long time, but it's a frame of the
video." Mhm. Yeah. And that makes me
enjoy it much more. Maybe it's
subliminal. Maybe a lot of people don't
think about that, but yeah, I think you
are just like an incredible
YouTuber,
but again, like I'm curious if in 5
years you still consider yourself a
YouTuber or an artist who makes YouTube
videos. Yeah. Well, first of all, thank
you. It's very, very high praise and
making me blush on the colors of your
podcast. Um, yeah, that is very, very
kind. I care deeply about people's time
to the point where like part of the
reason I stopped YouTube was I almost
felt like I was wasting people's time.
Like I'd rather you like my perfect fan,
especially when I graduated was someone
who was like, "Hey, I used to love your
videos and now I work a nice job and
have a wife and don't watch YouTube
anymore." Like that was like what I
would tell my friends like I hope for
people who would enjoy my content. Like
almost they moved on, right? You ever
seen that like Goodwill Hunting? Yeah,
of course. Like I hope you don't show
back up at the house type of thing. Like
I you know what I mean? Because I find
myself almost wasting time on the
internet. So I was always like is it
counterintuitive for me to do this? But
my thought process is like the audience
is already there. I'd rather just like
steer them in the right direction and
like make mistakes along the way, but
like ultimately end with like adding net
positive feelings and like culture to
the internet. And part of that is
through like, you know, you watch the
video in 12 minutes, but I spent the
past four weeks, 18 hours a day editing
it, right? Um, and yeah, I think I I'm a
pretty good editor. I think if I really
put like I'm always doing it such fast
turnaround time because it's just me and
occasionally like you know like the the
voice of Cable Crocs Danny like I've
been having him help me out or like
teaching him like what I would do here.
So whole like if I get up and take a
call I'm like Danny sit down like try to
edit like show me how you do this. Um
but yeah like I love effort for sake of
effort. I think that's what art is,
right? And that's why I think no matter
how intelligent and good generative AI
gets, there will always be artists the
same way that there's still painters,
even though we can digitally make
something, right? Um, not to say I'm
like the best editor in the world, but
again, it's like what my background is.
You're a great internet editor for sure.
Yeah, I'd say. So, I've edited every
video I've probably ever made. Yeah. So,
so talk to me this because again, I
consider you a very good YouTuber and
you've also worked at Beast. You've
you've had a lot of lives as a YouTuber.
I mean, to be 23 years old and to be a
YouTuber for 10 years is fascinating.
Yeah. What are some of the rules of good
YouTube videos in your opinion?
I guess it a good YouTube video uh it
depends on the niche you're in, right?
Like if at the heart of what you're
trying to do is to just connect with a
community, then like you make like a
your mom Ashley video and you just sit
there and you just engage. Like you also
have to be that type of person. Ashley's
very good at that and I'm so I am
terrible at that. Yeah. Yeah. I cannot
do that. We know I'm connecting with no
one right now. Yeah.
Um, yes. I I feel similarly where I my
skill set is not in like talking with
people. I I think I I'm okay at it and I
fake it for the videos, but I think I'm
more of an introverted. Um, so play to
your strengths. I think that's a big
thing where it's like there's no two
success stories that are the same.
There's no two artists that are the
same. So like play to your strengths.
create the content you consume. Um, and
steal, like really truly steal. Like if
you steal from your 15 favorite artists,
you make something that is so unique and
you that it's so like every creator I've
ever watched, I've stolen from. I'm
like, I love the way they speak. I love
the way they edit. I take a lot of
inspiration from my friends like Billy.
Um, he's a amazing one of the most
creative people I've ever met in my
life. like I didn't really draw at all
until I met him and then I picked up
kind of like making shitty sketches and
I think that's part of my identity now.
Um I helped him edit uh his educational
show called Big Weird World. Tik Tok
show. I Yeah, we were up against them in
the streamies. Oh, duh. Yeah, I was
there for that. That's where we both
lost. We both lost. So, we were cool.
Yeah, we were cool with each other.
Yeah. Billy's someone though. He's
chronically online. Like when we first
met him, the way he understands the
internet, he was showing us like merch
accounts that he ran that like I'd never
even heard of before that had like
hundreds of thousands of people
following it and like entire businesses
and it was just like small side thing he
was doing. Just understands it. Yeah.
Exactly. And so I love people like that
or even like more um traditional
entertainers, right? Like I steal
something from like a Bo Burnham. I
steal something from like even new
creators. Like I think you'd be shooting
yourself in the foot if you thought
you're too good to watch like these new
age creators and like a Natalie Tran,
like a Tamiro Mari, these like dumb
internet creators. Dumb like like in a
nice way. Like the same way I'm dumb.
Like just comedians that like are not
afraid to do something silly. Like I
take something from that and I
collaborate with them. Like who cares?
Like it's life's too short to be above
it. Well, I think also we we sat down
with the uh writer of Steel Like an
Artist, Austin Cleon. Oh, great. and uh
he was talking about stealing from
further back. So like look at your
favorite stuff and then try and figure
out who they stole from and then go
further back than anyone else would go.
And I actually think you know through
this conversation the Shalom lookalike
contest is a reference from a hundred
years ago. So it's not to say like oh
steal from uh what's presently online.
It's like actually go really far back in
time like evaluate like okay what is Kai
doing? Kai's doing the radio in a way
right when I was younger like I think
he's doing like live theater like radio
meets live action radio meets yeah like
all these different
weird worlds but that have existed
before in media. So then go there and
then go what was that based on and then
what was that based on and just keep
going back and reference what's
happening way back there because you're
going to be way more interesting. Yeah,
if you reference that and obviously like
again you're prime example with the
lookalike contest. Thank you. Thank you.
Yeah, it's a big thing. I think we get
so caught up in the present stuff. The
past stuff is really good. And then yes,
steal like an artist is a a great book.
Um don't be afraid to use Proxima. Let's
add that. Don't be afraid. Have the
courage to use Proximanova. It's a
beautiful sentence. It really is. I I
recommend I've got book recommendation.
And again, I I usually give this as like
a gift to anybody I'll, you know, meet
up with for podcast, whatever. Um, do
you know Struthless, the creator? No.
He's an Australian. Um, almost like any
any truthless people here? No. That was
the most engaged chat was. Yeah. Thank
you, chat.
Um, that was across the board. Yeah. Um,
he's a Australian creator. He makes like
videos about productivity, but not in
like a sigma male way. But do you know
what that sigma male is? Yeah. I have
like a general understanding. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm with you. Oh, you should come.
I should make a podcast called like dumb
things you need to know and I could
teach you. Yeah, Samir's thought about
it cuz he's like very he really like is
of the culture and he always says these
words that I never heard. Well, okay.
Again, to reference something and this
is now going a bit off track, but to
reference something, there's a podcast
called Reply All where they used to do
something called Yes, yes, no. Yes.
Yeah. Do you remember this? It's like
two guys who are chronically online and
their boss who didn't know what was
going on. And so it always started as a
yes. Yes, no. Like two of us get it, one
person doesn't. And the goal was to get
to Yes. Yes. Yes. And yeah, I thought it
was a great premise and and Rohan and I
have talked about a show called Age Gap,
which basically the same content. But I
think like my problem is I'm not even
watching Millennial content. I'm
watching like baby boomer content. Like
I'm watching like American Idol and CBS
Sunday. Yeah, he watches and I just real
content diet. Be you. I'm going to be
me. Don't let me swayed you. I'm not at
all. Love the confidence. Um, but
truthless he makes like educational
sigma male like productivity content or
not sigma male. It's very emotional and
he comes from a beautiful background of
like turmoil and is now like he's got a
wife and a kid. It's amazing. He has
this book um called Your Head is a
Houseboat and he just I'm like plugging
his stuff. I'm such a big fan of him. Uh
and he has this um new book he just
made. He he basically makes beautiful
books that are like equal parts graphic
design and storytelling on like
creativity in this evil era we live in
of like attention and like algorithms
made to keep you addicted. Um so I'm
going to ship it to you guys. Great. I
love that. It's amazing. The the big
thing is like in order to make good art
and good content and connect with
people, you need to consume it and you
also need to live a little. It's like if
you are just constantly engulfed in your
position as a marketer, position as a
creator, position as an artist, like you
lose track of the humanity and the
humility you had from just being a human
being. So that's like a good way to end
on. And I could also reshow the photo of
the cat smoking a cigarette or
something. See what else I have in here.
I do want to ask you like just Yeah.
What else do you have in there? Oh, my
my first sketch of Cheeseball Man. Okay.
I was going to ask you about that. Like
where does Cheeseball Man come from?
Where does that idea come from? Um
there's a guy who ate who I'm beefing
with now who ate a rotisserie chicken in
Philly, like an entire rotisserie
chicken and then I was like I could do
that but funnier with like a superhero.
I wanted to make a superhero video and
that was like how I would launch the
superhero and then I did it and it was
beautiful. And then I fought a guy a
super villain. It was a whole thing. But
the concept was you come watch me eat a
jar of cheese jar of cheese balls in
Washington Square Park Square. Union
Square and superheroes. It's basically
like you created your own superhero
universe. It was like something dumb and
people rallied and then I didn't know
how far I wanted to take it but I ended
up like doing patrols and like um
cleaning up the city and then a super
villain appeared and he gained like
300,000 followers like [__] on me
and then we had a fight and I had no
idea who he was. Oh, you didn't know who
he was? I thought that was orchestrated
by you. No, no, no. I had no idea who he
was. Oh wow. Yeah. Yeah. But and we
fought and I didn't I didn't know who
his his name or anything and I fought
him and it was really fun. Wow. And
actually it's crazy. So I worked at
Beast and I wasn't close with Jimmy at
all. Um like I didn't even know if he
really knew who I was. I just worked
there and then he we made like a collab
video or whatever. I was like part of
like a Tik Tok rewind type thing and he
was like, "Oh, like you fought the corn
guy." I was like that's a crazy thing to
know me for. Jimmy's pretty online.
Yeah. Yeah. He's a pretty online guy.
Um, so that it was probably my most fun
thing. Like I I had a superhero league
and like they like do stuff now and make
content. I don't know. It's a Yeah,
you're like a world builder. You've
built some worlds. Yeah, I guess so.
Really dumb, really silly world. But
yeah, it's it's cool. So, so leave us
with kind of advice uh on the creator
side and on the brand side like how
should these are two different types of
people who are you know operating on the
internet and uh both looking for the
same currency which is attention. Yeah.
Right. They're both kind of trying to
capture people. Uh, and it is, you know,
this week we're here in New York and
we're at a lot of these events and like
it is the primary topic of conversation,
right? And the p one of the primary
topics of conversation is how to connect
with a younger audience, right? How do
you what what is this next wave of
audiences? What is their expectations
and what do they want?
So from a creator perspective, uh I will
say people get again caught up in the
total view count when what matters so
much more is building a deep connection
with a few people, especially to start,
right? Like if you're struggling to go
from zero viewers on Twitch to 10, that
is like a a you problem where it's like
you need to engage with people, get
close with them, right? Um and really
like understand what it's like to be on
the other end of things. If you're just
streaming to become famous and you've
never watched a Twitch stream, you're
doing it wrong. Um, so really understand
the community you're trying to speak to.
And it's usually easiest to do that by
being that community. Um, so that's
probably the big thing, right? A
thousand true fans. I'm sure you guys
have talked about that on here before.
It's like I'm very grateful to have a
large fan base. Um, shout out to all you
unemployed people. Um, myself included.
But uh what's more important than that
is just really having a deep connection
with a couple people, right? Who are
like listen to everything you have to
say and like care about your ideals and
your thoughts and like support you. Um
and then from a brand perspective, trust
creators and take more risks, right?
It's very rare for a company to take a
risk and it truly blows up. oftentimes
it feels like it's almost the opposite
where it's like, you know, the the CEO
of Dualingo tweeting about AI because
it's like the smart shareholder thing to
do was like the biggest mistake they've
ever made, right? Right. Like that's the
usually that's the good thing to do is
like listen to what the LinkedIn people
are saying about whatever AI thing,
whatever. Um, so take risks, trust
creators. Um, and it's it's better to
work with a creator who has 10,000
followers, who's so passionate and in
love with your brand and willing to go
the extra mile than it is to work with
someone who has a million followers who
just is going to
um buy Saratoga water or whatever. I'm
trying to be like culturally relevant
stuff like Saratoga. But I think to your
first point too, I think brands and
people who work at brands, I've I've
always said this, they need to become
authentic members of communities because
otherwise like you're spending with a
creator, but oftentimes we feel it when
we're on the receiving end of a brand
inbound is like that, oh, they don't
really watch our stuff. They just have
heard that they should work. They're
just asking to interrupt our audience
basically. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. And
people I mean, you see it in YouTube,
people just click past, they just hit 10
second forwards and then your retention
goes down, right? Yeah. So, no one did
that with Kipper Crocs. Like, because
the videos were the the thing. Yeah. Um,
most importantly though,
have fun. Don't do it. Oh, wait. No. Oh,
most importantly though, subscribe to
Colin and Sam.
Um, you do both. You could use whichever
take you like there. Um, but yeah, have
fun. Got most of that out. Yeah, this
internet place could be so negative.
It's e hate is the easiest thing to pay
attention to, right? Primitively, it's
what we do. So try to pay attention to
what you pay attention to. It's a
hankering quote. Um and put your energy
in the right places. I love that. Great.
Thank you, dude.